packages/plugin-polyfills/README.md, before:

# @greenwood/plugin-polyfills

## Overview
A Greenwood plugin adding support for [Web Component related polyfills](https://github.com/webcomponents/polyfills) for browsers that need support for part of the Web Component spec like **Custom Elements** and **Shadow DOM**.  It uses [feature detection](https://github.com/webcomponents/polyfills/tree/master/packages/webcomponentsjs#using-webcomponents-loaderjs) to determine what polyfills are actually needed based on the user's browser, to ensure only the minumum extra code is loaded.

As of right now, you will likely need this plugin to load additional polyfills if you want to support these browser(s):

- Internet Explorer <= 11
- Mobile Browsers

See Greenwood's [browser support](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/about/how-it-works#browser-support) and [evergreen build](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/about/how-it-works#evergreen-build) docs for more information on how Greenwood handles browser support out of the box.  Or visit [caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/) to look up specific support for specific browsers.

> _For more information and complete docs about Greenwood, please visit the [Greenwood website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/)._

## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.  This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

_examples:_
```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-polyfills --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-polyfills --dev
```

## Usage
Use this plugin in your _greenwood.config.js_.

```javascript
const polyfillsPlugin = require('@greenwood/plugin-polyfills');

module.exports = {
  ...

  plugins: [
    polyfillsPlugin()
  ]
}
```

Now when your project builds for production, you will see a _bundles/_ directory in your output directory, as well as a file called _webcomponents-loader.js_, as well as a `<script>` tag for that file in the  `<head>` of your _index.html_ files.  When a page is loaded, the feature detection capabilities will then load the necessary polyfills to have your project work for a user's given browser.

> Note: we would like to add support for [differntial loading](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/224) to avoid the cost of this for newer browsers.

Commit message:

upgrade website to `lit@2` (#611)
* init commit with website components working use lit 2

* update import node modules spec per new lit packaging

* disable SPA mode spec

* all specs passing with new lit

* update cli devDep

* everything working and rebased

* restore eve components

* add trusted types scaffolding for lit-html

* upgrade to latest version of lit-redux-router with lit 2 compat

* update specs

* update develop specs for lit@2

* upgrade lit rc4

* handling puppeteer serialization issues with lit 2 and Shady DOM (#719)

* WIP

* revert www changes

* apply lit polyfill support

* conditially check for lit before using polyfill

* upgrade to final stable version

* rebased from master but broken???

* bump deps and set lit resolututions

* ship lit polyfill for lit and plugin polyfills users

packages/plugin-polyfills/README.md, after:

# @greenwood/plugin-polyfills

## Overview
A Greenwood plugin adding support for [Web Component related polyfills](https://github.com/webcomponents/polyfills) for browsers that need support for part of the Web Component spec like **Custom Elements** and **Shadow DOM**.  It uses [feature detection](https://github.com/webcomponents/polyfills/tree/master/packages/webcomponentsjs#using-webcomponents-loaderjs) to determine what polyfills are actually needed based on the user's browser, to ensure only the minumum extra code is loaded.  If you are using **Lit@2**, it also loads the needed [_polyfill-support.js_](https://lit.dev/docs/tools/requirements/#polyfills) file.

As of right now, you will likely need this plugin to load additional polyfills if you want to support these browser(s):

- Internet Explorer <= 11
- Mobile Browsers

See Greenwood's [browser support](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/about/how-it-works#browser-support) and [evergreen build](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/about/how-it-works#evergreen-build) docs for more information on how Greenwood handles browser support out of the box.  Or visit [caniuse.com](https://caniuse.com/) to look up specific support for specific browsers.

> _For more information and complete docs about Greenwood, please visit the [Greenwood website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/)._

## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.  This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

_examples:_
```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-polyfills --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-polyfills --dev
```

## Usage
Use this plugin in your _greenwood.config.js_.

```javascript
const polyfillsPlugin = require('@greenwood/plugin-polyfills');

module.exports = {
  ...

  plugins: [
    polyfillsPlugin()
  ]
}
```

Now when your project builds for production, you will see a _bundles/_ directory in your output directory, as well as a file called _webcomponents-loader.js_, as well as a `<script>` tag for that file in the  `<head>` of your _index.html_ files.  When a page is loaded, the feature detection capabilities will then load the necessary polyfills to have your project work for a user's given browser.

> Note: we would like to add support for [differntial loading](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/224) to avoid the cost of this for newer browsers.
