packages/plugin-google-analytics/README.md, before:

# @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics

## Overview
A Greenwood plugin adding support for [Google Analytics](https://developers.google.com/analytics/) JavaScript tracker. 

> _For more information and complete docs about Greenwood, please visit the [Greenwood website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/)._  


## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.  This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

_examples:_
```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics --dev
```

## Usage
Use this plugin in your _greenwood.config.js_ and pass in your Google Analytics ID, which can either be a
* Measurement ID (**recommended**): ex. `G-XXXXXX`
* Tracking ID (legacy): ex. `UA-XXXXXX`

```javascript
import { greenwoodPluginGoogleAnalytics } from '@greenwood/plugin-google-analytics';

export default {
  ...

  plugins: [
    greenwoodPluginGoogleAnalytics({
      analyticsId: 'UA-XXXXXX'
    })
  ]
}
```

This will then add the Google Analytics [JavaScript tracker snippet](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/) to your project's _index.html_.

> _Learn more about [Measurement and Tracking IDs](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9539598)_.

## Options
- `analyticsId` (required) - Your Google Analytics ID
- `anonymous` (optional) - Sets if tracking of IPs should be done anonymously.  Default is `true`

### Outbound Links
For links that go outside of your domain, the global function [`getOutboundLink`](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/7478520) is available for you to use.  

Example:
```html
<a 
  target="_blank" 
  rel="noopener"
  onclick="getOutboundLink('www.mylink.com');" 
  href="www.mylink.com">My Link
</a>
```

Commit message:

Bug/issue 845 GA plugin `ga` is undefined in development (#846)
* switch GA resource to intercept resource lifecycle

* local vs prod tracking IDs docs

packages/plugin-google-analytics/README.md, after:

# @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics

## Overview
A Greenwood plugin adding support for [Google Analytics](https://developers.google.com/analytics/) JavaScript tracker. It assumes you already have your own Tracking ID(s) and [can eiterh filter out tracking for everything but your production environment](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1251931/417806) so that local testing doesn't interfere with production data, or use a conditional based `analyticsId` using an environment variable, ex.
```js
const analyticsId = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'xxx' ? 'UA-123...' : 'UA-345...';
```

> _For more information and complete docs about Greenwood, please visit the [Greenwood website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/)._  


## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.  This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

_examples:_
```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-google-analytics --dev
```

## Usage
Use this plugin in your _greenwood.config.js_ and pass in your Google Analytics ID, which can either be a
* Measurement ID (**recommended**): ex. `G-XXXXXX`
* Tracking ID (legacy): ex. `UA-XXXXXX`

```javascript
import { greenwoodPluginGoogleAnalytics } from '@greenwood/plugin-google-analytics';

export default {
  ...

  plugins: [
    greenwoodPluginGoogleAnalytics({
      analyticsId: 'UA-XXXXXX'
    })
  ]
}
```

This will then add the Google Analytics [JavaScript tracker snippet](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/) to your project's _index.html_.

> _Learn more about [Measurement and Tracking IDs](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9539598)_.

## Options
- `analyticsId` (required) - Your Google Analytics ID
- `anonymous` (optional) - Sets if tracking of IPs should be done anonymously.  Default is `true`

### Outbound Links
For links that go outside of your domain, the global function [`getOutboundLink`](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/7478520) is available for you to use.  

Example:
```html
<a 
  target="_blank" 
  rel="noopener"
  onclick="getOutboundLink('www.mylink.com');" 
  href="www.mylink.com">My Link
</a>
```
