---
label: 'creating-content'
---

## Overview
After having had a chance to setup our [project workspace](/getting-started/project-setup) and reviewing some of Greenwood's key concepts, it's time to get to the good stuff; writing some content and building your first site! 

# Getting Started
By default, Greenwood will generate a site for you in _public/_.
```shell
$ greenwood build
```

Fun!  But naturally you'll want to make your own pages.  So create a folder called _src/pages/_ and create a page called _index.md_.
```md
# Helloworld
```

and run `greenwood` again and you should now see a new page called hello!

You can keep using this make more pages, but eventually you'll want to start creating your page templates, reusable components, and metadata configuration, so let's get to the good stuff!

### Assets

You can add static assets to your public path once generated by creating an "assets" folder in your workspace(by default the path would be `src/assets`). Assets will then be publicly accessible at `/assets/yourfile`.


#### page-layout.js (default)
This is the default template assumed by Greenwood and so we will use this for our the home page for our project.  For the project in this guide, the home page will be a full width page layout and will have a link to each blog post.


#### blog-post.js
This will be the template we'll use for each blog post we'll create as part of this guide.  It will be a two column layout with a side nav of blog post links on the left third of the page, and the content of the blog post in the remaining two thirds.