www/pages/getting-started/index.md, before:

## Introduction
First off, thank you for taking the time to check out Greenwood!  As a tool, we hope that you find Greenwood to provide a productive and frictionless developer experience for you that results in performant and engaging experiences for your users.  Under the hood Greenwood is using NodeJS, webpack, babel and a lot of other amazing JavaScript tools to power a modern development workflow based on first class support for the modern web like Web Components, FlexBox, CSS Grid, ECMAScript modules, and all your favorite features!

## Your First Project
To get things started, we first want to make sure everyone can get their first project up and running as easily and quickly as possible, and so through this guide, we will help walk you through everything you need to get started with your first project, including:
1. Setting up your workspace and installing Greenwood
1. Reviewing key concepts of Greenwood
1. Creating content and developing locally
1. Authoring Web Components and adding CSS
1. Configuration
1. Building and hosting for production


## Prequisites
Before going into the setup section of the tutorial, we want to make sure that you are familiar with some of the expectations and assumptions this guide (and Greenwood) make.

#### NodeJS and the Command Line (CLI)
[NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) is the environment used for running Greenwood from the command line.  We recommend installing the _LTS_ version of NodeJS onto your machine and being familiar with [**npm**](https://www.npmjs.com/), the package manager that comes with NodeJS.  The command line will be the primary mechanism for:
- Initializing your project
- Installing Greenwood
- Running scripts from the command line

You can test that both are installed correctly from the command line by verifying the output of the following commands:
```render bash
$ node -v
$ npm -v

# for example
$ node -v
v10.15.1

$ npm -v
6.4.1
```

Along with this, familiarity of the command line / terminal is also assumed as Greenwood is a command line tool, and so all examples will assume a bash / shell like environment.  Example commands used in this guide are:
```render bash
# create a directory for your project and change into it
$ mkdir my-project
$ cd my-project

# installing packages with npm
$ npm install <package>

# running a custom npm script
$ npm run develop
```

#### Experience
No advanced JavaScript / CSS experience is needed for using Greenwood.  Just knowing some [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and following some basic steps from the command line will be enough to get you up and running quickly.  

We like to think that that as your experience grows, so can the way you build your site.  Greenwood has very few opinions on how you structure your site or what you're trying to build or how and so our hope is to provide you a developer experience that is conducive to modern web development.

## Tutorials
So if you're ready to get started, let's get [your first project setup](/getting-started/project-setup/)!  Or if you just want to "code and go", check out our [quick start](/getting-started/quick-start/).

Commit message:

task: refactor into single menu query, enable menu filtering with markdown declarations

www/pages/getting-started/index.md, after:

---
label: 'getting-started'
menu: navigation
title: 'Getting Started'
---

## Introduction
First off, thank you for taking the time to check out Greenwood!  As a tool, we hope that you find Greenwood to provide a productive and frictionless developer experience for you that results in performant and engaging experiences for your users.  Under the hood Greenwood is using NodeJS, webpack, babel and a lot of other amazing JavaScript tools to power a modern development workflow based on first class support for the modern web like Web Components, FlexBox, CSS Grid, ECMAScript modules, and all your favorite features!

## Your First Project
To get things started, we first want to make sure everyone can get their first project up and running as easily and quickly as possible, and so through this guide, we will help walk you through everything you need to get started with your first project, including:
1. Setting up your workspace and installing Greenwood
1. Reviewing key concepts of Greenwood
1. Creating content and developing locally
1. Authoring Web Components and adding CSS
1. Configuration
1. Building and hosting for production


## Prequisites
Before going into the setup section of the tutorial, we want to make sure that you are familiar with some of the expectations and assumptions this guide (and Greenwood) make.

#### NodeJS and the Command Line (CLI)
[NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) is the environment used for running Greenwood from the command line.  We recommend installing the _LTS_ version of NodeJS onto your machine and being familiar with [**npm**](https://www.npmjs.com/), the package manager that comes with NodeJS.  The command line will be the primary mechanism for:
- Initializing your project
- Installing Greenwood
- Running scripts from the command line

You can test that both are installed correctly from the command line by verifying the output of the following commands:
```render bash
$ node -v
$ npm -v

# for example
$ node -v
v10.15.1

$ npm -v
6.4.1
```

Along with this, familiarity of the command line / terminal is also assumed as Greenwood is a command line tool, and so all examples will assume a bash / shell like environment.  Example commands used in this guide are:
```render bash
# create a directory for your project and change into it
$ mkdir my-project
$ cd my-project

# installing packages with npm
$ npm install <package>

# running a custom npm script
$ npm run develop
```

#### Experience
No advanced JavaScript / CSS experience is needed for using Greenwood.  Just knowing some [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and following some basic steps from the command line will be enough to get you up and running quickly.

We like to think that that as your experience grows, so can the way you build your site.  Greenwood has very few opinions on how you structure your site or what you're trying to build or how and so our hope is to provide you a developer experience that is conducive to modern web development.

## Tutorials
So if you're ready to get started, let's get [your first project setup](/getting-started/project-setup/)!  Or if you just want to "code and go", check out our [quick start](/getting-started/quick-start/).
