www/pages/getting-started/quick-start.md, before:

---
label: 'quick-start'
menu: side
title: 'Quick Start'
index: 1
---

## Quick Start
If you want to code and go then we welcome you to check out the ["companion" repository](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood-getting-started) we made to accompany this guide.


To get the code from this walkthrough, you can simply clone the repo, install dependencies, and off you go!
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood-getting-started
$ cd greenwood-getting-started

$ npm install

$ npm start
```

Done!


Additionally, you can start your own project right now as easy as 1.. 2.. 3, right from the command line!
```bash
# with NodeJS already installed
# create a pages directory for your content
$ mkdir -p src/pages

# create an index.md file as your home page
$ echo "## hello world" > src/pages/index.md

# run one of Greenwood's commands, and that's it!
$ npx @greenwood/cli develop
```

_To learn more about what you can do with Greenwood, head over to our [documentation](/docs/) or feel to review the other sections in this guide.  To setup a project from scratch, you can pick up the rest of the getting started guide in the [project setup](/getting-started/project-setup) page._

Commit message:

move stackblitz example to the quick start docs page

www/pages/getting-started/quick-start.md, after:

---
label: 'quick-start'
menu: side
title: 'Quick Start'
index: 1
---

## Quick Start

If you want to get right into some code, we have a few options for you to start building with Greenwood right away:
- GitHub repo
- Stackblitz
- Command line with `npx`

### GitHub Repo
If you want to _clone and go_ then we welcome you to check out the [companion repo](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood-getting-started) we made to accompany this guide.  To get the code from this walkthrough, you can simply clone the repo, install dependencies, and off you go!

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood-getting-started
$ cd greenwood-getting-started

$ npm install

$ npm start
```

Done!

### Stackblitz ⚡

Greenwood thinks there's a world where you never have to leave the browser to build and author content for your site, and after you see our starter working in Stackblitz, we think you'll be a believer too!

<iframe src="https://stackblitz.com/github/projectevergreen/greenwood-getting-started?embed=1" loading="lazy"></iframe>


### Command Line

Additionally, you can start your own project right now as easy as 1.. 2.. 3, right from the command line!
```bash
# with NodeJS already installed
# create a pages directory for your content
$ mkdir -p src/pages

# create an index.md file as your home page
$ echo "## hello world" > src/pages/index.md

# run one of Greenwood's commands, and that's it!
$ npx @greenwood/cli develop
```

_To learn more about what you can do with Greenwood, head over to our [documentation](/docs/) or feel to review the other sections in this guide.  To setup a project from scratch, you can pick up the rest of the getting started guide in the [project setup](/getting-started/project-setup) page._
