README.md, before:

# Greenwood
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/6758148c-5c38-44d8-b908-ca0a1dad0f7c/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/elastic-blackwell-3aef44/deploys)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tags)
![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/master.svg?style=plastic)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/master/LICENSE.md)

## Overview
Greenwood is a modern and performant static site generator supporting Web Component based development.  For more information about how to get started, review our docs, or learn more about our project please visit our [website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/).

> Greenwood is currently a work in progress and we would love any help getting it to a 1.0 release.  Check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects) to see what we're working on next and feel free to reach out through our [issue tracker](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues) if you have any issues or would like to request a feature!

## Getting Started
Our website has a complete [Getting Started](http://www.greenwoodjs.io/getting-started) section that will walk you through creating a Greenwood project from scratch.

You can follow along with, or clone and go, the [companion repo](https://github.com/thescientist13/greenwood-getting-started).

## Installation
Greenwood can be installed with your favorite JavaScript package manager.
```bash
# npm
npm -i @greenwood/cli --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/cli --dev
```

Then in your _package.json_, you can run the CLI like so:
```javascript
"scripts": {
  "build": "greenwood build",
  "start": "greenwood develop"
}
```

- `npm run build`: generates a static build of your project
- `npm start`: starts a local development server for your project

## Documentation
All of our documentation is on our [website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/) (which itself is built by Greenwood!).  See our website documentation to learn more about:
- Configuration
- Pages
- Templates
- Component Model
- Styles and Assets

## Contributing
We would love your [contribution](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Greenwood!  Please check out our issue tracker for "good first issue" labels or feel to reach out to us on Gitter in the room "Greenwood" or on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/PrjEvergreen).

## License
See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).

Commit message:

project showcase and adding thegreenhouse.io (#172)
* add thegreenhouse.io

* table formatting

README.md, after:

# Greenwood
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/6758148c-5c38-44d8-b908-ca0a1dad0f7c/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/elastic-blackwell-3aef44/deploys)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tags)
![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/master.svg?style=plastic)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood.svg)](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/master/LICENSE.md)

## Overview
Greenwood is a modern and performant static site generator supporting Web Component based development.  For more information about how to get started, review our docs, or learn more about our project please visit our [website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/).

> Greenwood is currently a work in progress and we would love any help getting it to a 1.0 release.  Check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects) to see what we're working on next and feel free to reach out through our [issue tracker](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues) if you have any issues or would like to request a feature!

## Getting Started
Our website has a complete [Getting Started](http://www.greenwoodjs.io/getting-started) section that will walk you through creating a Greenwood project from scratch.

You can follow along with, or clone and go, the [companion repo](https://github.com/thescientist13/greenwood-getting-started).

## Installation
Greenwood can be installed with your favorite JavaScript package manager.
```bash
# npm
npm -i @greenwood/cli --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/cli --dev
```

Then in your _package.json_, you can run the CLI like so:
```javascript
"scripts": {
  "build": "greenwood build",
  "start": "greenwood develop"
}
```

- `npm run build`: generates a static build of your project
- `npm start`: starts a local development server for your project

## Documentation
All of our documentation is on our [website](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/) (which itself is built by Greenwood!).  See our website documentation to learn more about:
- Configuration
- Pages
- Templates
- Component Model
- Styles and Assets

## Contributing
We would love your [contribution](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) to Greenwood!  Please check out our issue tracker for "good first issue" labels or feel to reach out to us on Gitter in the room "Greenwood" or on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/PrjEvergreen).

## Built With Greenwood
| Site  | Repo  | Project Details  | 
|---|---|---|
| [The Greenhouse I/O](https://www.thegreenhouse.io/)  | [https://github.com/thegreenhouseio/www.thegreenhouse.io](https://github.com/thegreenhouseio/www.thegreenhouse.io)  | Personal portfolio / blog website for @thescientist13 (Greenwood maintainer). |

> Built a site with Greenwood?  Open a PR and add it here!

## License
See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).
