www/pages/docs/api-routes.md, before:

---
label: 'API-routes'
menu: side
title: 'API Routes'
index: 9
linkheadings: 3
---

## API Routes

Greenwood has support for API routes, which are just functions that run on the server, and take in a [`Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request), and return a [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response).  Each API route must export an `async` function called **handler**.

### Usage

API routes follow a file based routing convention, just like [pages](/docs/layouts/#pages).  So this structure
```shell
src/
  api/
    greeting.js
```

Will yield an endpoint available at `/api/greeting`.

Here is an example of that API, which reads a query parameter of `name` and returns a JSON response.

```js
export async function handler(request) {
  const params = new URLSearchParams(request.url.slice(request.url.indexOf('?')));
  const name = params.has('name') ? params.get('name') : 'World';
  const body = { message: `Hello ${name}!!!` };

  return new Response(JSON.stringify(body), {
    headers: new Headers({
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    })
  });
}
```

### WCC

As [**WCC**](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/wcc) already comes with Greenwood, this could be used with API routes to generate HTML "fragments" on the server side using your projects Web Components, thus being able to leverage your components on the client _and_ the server!  As the HTML is added to the DOM, if the custom element definition has been loaded client side too, these components will hydrate automatically and become instantly interactive.  (think of appending more items to a virtualized list).  🚀

An example of rendering a "card" component in an API route might look like look this.
```js
// card.js
export default class Card extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    const name = this.getAttribute('name');

    this.innerHTML = `
      <h1>Hello ${name}!!!</h1>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('x-card', Card);
```

```js
// API route
import { renderFromHTML } from 'wc-compiler';

export async function handler(request) {
  const headers = new Headers();
  const params = new URLSearchParams(request.url.slice(request.url.indexOf('?')));
  const name = params.has('name') ? params.get('name') : 'World';
  const { html } = await renderFromHTML(`
    <x-card name="${name}"></x-card>
  `, [
    new URL('path/to/card.js', import.meta.url)
  ]);

  headers.append('Content-Type', 'text/html');

  return new Response(html, { headers });
}
```

### Isolation

To execute an API route in its own request context when running `greenwood serve`, you can export an `isolation` option from your page set to `true`.

```js
export const isolation = true;
```

> For more information and how you can enable this for all pages, please see the [isolation configuration](/docs/configuration/#isolation) docs.

Commit message:

collapse API routes directory into pages directory

www/pages/docs/api-routes.md, after:

---
label: 'API-routes'
menu: side
title: 'API Routes'
index: 9
linkheadings: 3
---

## API Routes

Greenwood has support for API routes, which are just functions that run on the server, and take in a [`Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request), and return a [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response).  Each API route must export an `async` function called **handler**.

### Usage

API routes follow a file based routing convention, within the [pages directory](/docs/layouts/#pages).  So this structure
```shell
src/
  pages/
    api/
      greeting.js
```

Will yield an endpoint available at `/api/greeting` in the browser.

Here is an example of that API, which reads a query parameter of `name` and returns a JSON response.

```js
export async function handler(request) {
  const params = new URLSearchParams(request.url.slice(request.url.indexOf('?')));
  const name = params.has('name') ? params.get('name') : 'World';
  const body = { message: `Hello ${name}!!!` };

  return new Response(JSON.stringify(body), {
    headers: new Headers({
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    })
  });
}
```

### WCC

As [**WCC**](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/wcc) already comes with Greenwood, this could be used with API routes to generate HTML "fragments" on the server side using your projects Web Components, thus being able to leverage your components on the client _and_ the server!  As the HTML is added to the DOM, if the custom element definition has been loaded client side too, these components will hydrate automatically and become instantly interactive.  (think of appending more items to a virtualized list).  🚀

An example of rendering a "card" component in an API route might look like look this.
```js
// card.js
export default class Card extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    const name = this.getAttribute('name');

    this.innerHTML = `
      <h1>Hello ${name}!!!</h1>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('x-card', Card);
```

```js
// API route
import { renderFromHTML } from 'wc-compiler';

export async function handler(request) {
  const headers = new Headers();
  const params = new URLSearchParams(request.url.slice(request.url.indexOf('?')));
  const name = params.has('name') ? params.get('name') : 'World';
  const { html } = await renderFromHTML(`
    <x-card name="${name}"></x-card>
  `, [
    new URL('../path/to/card.js', import.meta.url)
  ]);

  headers.append('Content-Type', 'text/html');

  return new Response(html, { headers });
}
```

### Isolation

To execute an API route in its own request context when running `greenwood serve`, you can export an `isolation` option from your page set to `true`.

```js
export const isolation = true;
```

> For more information and how you can enable this for all pages, please see the [isolation configuration](/docs/configuration/#isolation) docs.
