www/pages/docs/css-and-images.md, before:

---
label: 'styles-and-assets'
menu: side
title: 'Styles and Assets'
index: 6
linkheadings: 3
---

## Styles and Assets
**Greenwood** generally does not have any opinion on how you structure your site, aside from the pre-determined _pages/_ and (optional) _layouts/_ directories.  It supports all standard files that you can open in a web browser.


### Styles
Styles can be done in any standards compliant way that will work in a browser.  So just as in HTML, you can do anything you need like below:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" prefix="og:http://ogp.me/ns#">

  <head>
    <style>
      html {
        background-color: white;
      }

      body {
        font-family: 'Source Sans Pro', sans-serif;
        background-image: url('../images/background.webp');
        line-height: 1.4;
      }
    </style>

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/styles/some-page.css"/>
  </head>

  <body>
    <!-- content goes here -->
  </body>

</html>
```

> _In the above example, Greenwood will also bundle any `url` references in your CSS automatically._

### Assets

For convenience, **Greenwood** does support an "assets" directory wherein anything included in that directory will automatically be copied into the build output directory.  This can be useful if you have files you want available as part of your build output that are not bundled through CSS or JavaScript as generally anything that is not referenced through an `import`, `@import`, `<script>`, `<style>` or `<link>` will not automatically be handled by **Greenwood** no matter where it is located in your workspace.

#### Example

To use an image in a markdown file (which would not be automatically bundled), you would reference it as so using standard markdown syntax:

```md
# This is my page

![my-image](/assets/images/my-image.webp)
```

You can do the same in your HTML

```html
<header>
  <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
  <a href="/assets/download.pdf">Download our product catalog</a>
</header>
```

In your JavaScript, you can also use a combination of [`new URL`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL) and [`import.meta.url`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import.meta) which means you can put the file anywhere in your project, not just the _assets/_ directory and it will be resolved automatically!  For production builds, Greenwood will generate a unique filename for the asset as well, e.g. _logo-83bc009f.svg_.

> _We are looking to improve the developer experience around using `new URL` + `import.meta.url` as part of an overall isomorphic asset bundling strategy.  You can visit this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/1163) to follow along._

```js
const logo = new URL('../images/logo.svg', import.meta.url);

class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    this.innerHTML = `
      <header>
        <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
        <!-- handles nested routes / deeplinking, e.g. https://www.mysite.com/some/page/ -->
        <img src="${logo.pathname.replace(window.location.pathname, '/')}" alt="Greenwood logo"/>
      </header>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('x-header', HeaderComponent);
```

> If you like an all-the-things-in-JS approach, Greenwood can be extended with [plugins](/plugins/) to support "webpack" like behavior as seen in the below example for CSS:
>
> ```javascript
> import styles from './header.css';
> 
> const logo = new URL('../images/logo.svg', import.meta.url);
>
> class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
>   connectedCallback() {
>     this.innerHTML = `
>       <style>
>         ${styles}
>       <style>
>       <header>
>         <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
>         <img src="${logo.pathname.replace(window.location.pathname, '/')}" alt="Greenwood logo"/>
>       </header>
>    `;
>   }
> }
>
> customElements.define('x-header', HeaderComponent);
> ```


### Meta files

The build includes a few [default copy plugins](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/cli/src/plugins/copy) for common meta files.   Typically, they support copying the files from the source directory to the build directory.

* `plugin-copy-favicon.js` - copies favicon.ico.  NOTE:  Does not support multiple favicons.  For multiple support, use the manifest.json or make a custom plugin
* `plugin-copy-manifest-json.js` - copies manifest.json
* `plugin-copy-robots.js` - copies robots.txt
* `plugin-copy-sitemap.js` - copies sitemap.xml

If you need to generate these files dynamically, build a custom copy plugin.  The [build.default.meta-files.spec.js](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/blob/master/packages/cli/test/cases/build.default.meta-files/build.default.meta-files.spec.js) is a good example of how to test.  The test lifecycle is:

* Read config
* Build site using fixtures (fake files) in the test directory
* Assert the copy executed properly

Commit message:

update meta files docs and usage examples

www/pages/docs/css-and-images.md, after:

---
label: 'styles-and-assets'
menu: side
title: 'Styles and Assets'
index: 6
linkheadings: 3
---

## Styles and Assets
**Greenwood** generally does not have any opinion on how you structure your site, aside from the pre-determined _pages/_ and (optional) _layouts/_ directories.  It supports all standard files that you can open in a web browser.


### Styles
Styles can be done in any standards compliant way that will work in a browser.  So just as in HTML, you can do anything you need like below:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" prefix="og:http://ogp.me/ns#">

  <head>
    <style>
      html {
        background-color: white;
      }

      body {
        font-family: 'Source Sans Pro', sans-serif;
        background-image: url('../images/background.webp');
        line-height: 1.4;
      }
    </style>

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/styles/some-page.css"/>
  </head>

  <body>
    <!-- content goes here -->
  </body>

</html>
```

> _In the above example, Greenwood will also bundle any `url` references in your CSS automatically._

### Assets

For convenience, **Greenwood** does support an "assets" directory wherein anything included in that directory will automatically be copied into the build output directory.  This can be useful if you have files you want available as part of your build output that are not bundled through CSS or JavaScript as generally anything that is not referenced through an `import`, `@import`, `<script>`, `<style>` or `<link>` will not automatically be handled by **Greenwood** no matter where it is located in your workspace.

#### Example

To use an image in a markdown file (which would not be automatically bundled), you would reference it as so using standard markdown syntax:

```md
# This is my page

![my-image](/assets/images/my-image.webp)
```

You can do the same in your HTML

```html
<header>
  <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
  <a href="/assets/download.pdf">Download our product catalog</a>
</header>
```

In your JavaScript, you can also use a combination of [`new URL`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL) and [`import.meta.url`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import.meta) which means you can put the file anywhere in your project, not just the _assets/_ directory and it will be resolved automatically!  For production builds, Greenwood will generate a unique filename for the asset as well, e.g. _logo-83bc009f.svg_.

> _We are looking to improve the developer experience around using `new URL` + `import.meta.url` as part of an overall isomorphic asset bundling strategy.  You can visit this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/1163) to follow along._

```js
const logo = new URL('../images/logo.svg', import.meta.url);

class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
  connectedCallback() {
    this.innerHTML = `
      <header>
        <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
        <!-- handles nested routes / deeplinking, e.g. https://www.mysite.com/some/page/ -->
        <img src="${logo.pathname.replace(window.location.pathname, '/')}" alt="Greenwood logo"/>
      </header>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('x-header', HeaderComponent);
```

> If you like an all-the-things-in-JS approach, Greenwood can be extended with [plugins](/plugins/) to support "webpack" like behavior as seen in the below example for CSS:
>
> ```javascript
> import styles from './header.css';
> 
> const logo = new URL('../images/logo.svg', import.meta.url);
>
> class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
>   connectedCallback() {
>     this.innerHTML = `
>       <style>
>         ${styles}
>       <style>
>       <header>
>         <h1>Welcome to My Site!</h1>
>         <img src="${logo.pathname.replace(window.location.pathname, '/')}" alt="Greenwood logo"/>
>       </header>
>    `;
>   }
> }
>
> customElements.define('x-header', HeaderComponent);
> ```


### Meta Files

By default, Greenwood will automatically detect these "meta" files from the top-level of your [workspace directory](docs/configuration/#workspace) and automatically copy them over to the root of the build output directory.

- _favicon.ico_
- _robots.txt_
- _sitemap.xml_

Example:

```shell
src/
  favicon.ico
  robots.txt
  sitemap.xml
```

> If you need support for more custom copying of static files like this, please check out our docs on creating your own [copy plugin](plugins/copy/).
