www/pages/docs/data.md, before:

---
label: 'data-sources'
menu: side
title: 'Data Sources'
index: 9
linkheadings: 3
---


## Data Sources

### Overview

Having to repeat things when programming is no fun, and that's why (web) component based development is so useful!  As websites start to grow, there comes a point where being able to have access to the content and structure of your site's layout and configuration as part of the development process becomes essential towards maintainability, performance, and scalability.

As an example, if you are developing a blog site, like in our [Getting Started](/getting-started/) guide, having to manually list a couple of blog posts by hand isn't so bad.

```html
<ul>
  <li><a href="/blog/2019/first-post.md">First Post</li></a>
  <li><a href="/blog/2019/second-post.md">Second Post</li></a>
</ul>
```

But what happens over time, when that list grows to 10, 50, 100+ posts?  Imagine maintaining that list each time, over and over again?  Or just remembering to update that list each time you publish a new post?  Not only that, but wouldn't it also be great to sort, search, filter, and organize those posts to make them easier for users to navigate and find?

So instead of a static list, you can do something like this!

```javascript
render() {
  return html`
    <ul>
      ${pages.map((page) => {
        return html`
          <li><a href="${page.path}">${page.title}</a></li>
        `;
      })}
    </ul>
  `;
}
```

To assist with this, Greenwood provides all your content as data, accessible from a single _graph.json_ file that you can simply [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) RESTfully or, if you install our [plugin for GraphQL](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql), you can use a GraphQL from your client side code instead! 💯


### Internal Sources
Greenwood (via [**plugin-graphql**](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql)) exposes an [Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) server locally when developing available at `localhost:4000` that can be used to get information about your local content like path, "slug", title and other useful information that will be dynamic to the content you create.  Programmatic access to this data can provide you the opportunity to share your content with your users in a way that supports sorting, filter, organizing, and more!

![graphql-playground](/assets/graphql-playground.png)

#### Schema
To kick things off, let's review what is available to you.  Currently, the main "API" is just a list of all pages in your _pages/_ directory, represented as a `Page` [type definition](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/basic-types/).   This is called Greenwood's `graph`.

This is what the schema looks like:
```javascript
graph {
  filename, // (string) base filename

  id, // (string) filename without the extension

  label, // (string) best guess pretty text / display based on filename

  outputPath, // (string) the relative path to write to when generating static HTML

  path, // (string) path to the file

  route,  // (string) A URL, typically derived from the filesystem path, e.g. /blog/2019/first-post/

  template, // (string) page template used for the page

  title,  // (string) Useful for a page's <title> tag or the title attribute for an <a> tag, inferred from the filesystem path, e.g. "First Post" or provided through front matter.
}
```

> All queries return subsets and / or derivatives of the `graph`.

#### Queries
To help facilitate development, Greenwood provides a couple queries out of the box that you can use to get access to the `graph` and start using it in your components, which we'll get to next.

Below are the queries available:

##### Graph
The Graph query returns an array of all pages.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  graph {
    filename,
    id,
    label,
    outputPath,
    path,
    route,
    template,
    title
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import GraphQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: GraphQuery
  });

  this.posts = response.data.graph;
}
```

###### Response
This will return the full `graph` of all pages as an array
```javascript
[
  {
    filename: "index.md",
    id: "index",
    label: "Index",
    outputPath: "index.html",
    path: "./index.md",
    route: "/",
    template: "page",
    title: "Home Page"
  }, {
    filename: "first-post.md",
    id: "first-post",
    label: "First Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/first-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/first-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/first-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My First Blog Poast"
  },
  {
    filename: "second-post.md",
    id: "second-post",
    label: "Second Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/second-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/second-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/second-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My Second Blog Poast"
  }
]
```

##### Menu Query

See [Menus](/docs/menu) for documentation on querying for custom menus.

##### Children
The Children query returns an array of all pages below a given top level route.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  children {
    id,
    filename,
    label,
    outputPath,
    path,
    route,
    template,
    title
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import ChildrenQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: ChildrenQuery,
    variables: {
      parent: 'blog'
    }
  });

  this.posts = response.data.children;
}
```

###### Response
This will return the full `graph` of all pages as an array that are under a given root, e.g. _/blog_.
```javascript
[
  {
    filename: "first-post.md",
    id: "first-post",
    label: "First Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/first-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/first-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/first-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My First Blog Poast"
  },
  {
    filename: "second-post.md",
    id: "second-post",
    label: "Second Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/second-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/second-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/second-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My Second Blog Poast"
  }
]
```

##### Config
The Config query returns the configuration values from your _greenwood.config.js_.  Useful for populating tags like `<title>` and `<meta>`.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  config {
  	devServer {
      port
    },
    meta {
      name,
      rel,
      content,
      property,
      value,
      href
    },
    mode,
    optimization,
    title,
    workspace
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import ConfigQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';
.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: ConfigQuery
  });

  this.meta = response.data.config.meta;
}
```

###### Response
This will return an object of your _greenwood.config.js_ as an object.  Example:
```javascript
{
  devServer: {
    port: 1984
  },
  meta: [
    { name: 'twitter:site', content: '@PrjEvergreen' },
    { rel: 'icon', href: '/assets/favicon.ico' }
  ],
  title: 'My App',
  workspace: 'src' // equivalent to => fileURLToPath(new URL('./www', import.meta.url))
}
```

##### Custom
You can of course come up with your own as needed!  Greenwood provides the [`gql-tag`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) module and will also resolve _.gql_ or _.graphql_ file extensions!

###### example:
```javascript
/* src/data/my-query.gql */
query {
  graph {
    /* whatever you are looking for */
  }
}
```

Or within your component
```javascript
import gql from 'graphql-tag';  // comes with Greenwood

const query = gql`
  {
    user(id: 5) {
      firstName
      lastName
    }
  }
`
```

Then you can use `import` anywhere in your components!

##### Complete Example
Now of course comes the fun part, actually seeing it all come together.  Here is an example from the Greenwood website's own [header component](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/blob/master/www/components/header/header.js).

```javascript
import { LitElement, html } from 'lit';
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import MenuQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

class HeaderComponent extends LitElement {

  static get properties() {
    return {
      navigation: {
        type: Array
      }
    };
  }

  constructor() {
    super();
    this.navigation = [];
  }

  async connectedCallback() {
    super.connectedCallback();

    const response = await client.query({
      query: MenuQuery,
      variables: {
        name: 'navigation'
      }
    });

    this.navigation = response.data.menu.children.map(item => item.item);
  }

  render() {
    const { navigation } = this;

    return html`
      <header class="header">

        <nav>
          <ul>
            ${navigation.map(({ item }) => {
              return html`
                <li><a href="${item.route}" title="Click to visit the ${item.label} page">${item.label}</a></li>
              `;
            })}
          </ul>
        </nav>

      </header>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('app-header', HeaderComponent);
```

> _For more information on using GraphQL with Greenwood, please see our [GraphQL plugin's README](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql)._

### External Sources

Using our [Source plugin](/plugins/source/), just as you can get your content as data _out_ of Greenwood, so can you provide your own sources of data _to_ Greenwood.  This is great for pulling content from a headless CMS, database, or anything else you can imagine!

The supported [fields from Greenwood's schema](/docs/data/#internal-sources) are:
```javascript
graph {
  content, // REQUIRED (string of your content)
  id,
  label,
  route,  // REQUIRED
  template,
  title
}
```

Commit message:

add minimum validation for data from source plugin

www/pages/docs/data.md, after:

---
label: 'data-sources'
menu: side
title: 'Data Sources'
index: 9
linkheadings: 3
---


## Data Sources

### Overview

Having to repeat things when programming is no fun, and that's why (web) component based development is so useful!  As websites start to grow, there comes a point where being able to have access to the content and structure of your site's layout and configuration as part of the development process becomes essential towards maintainability, performance, and scalability.

As an example, if you are developing a blog site, like in our [Getting Started](/getting-started/) guide, having to manually list a couple of blog posts by hand isn't so bad.

```html
<ul>
  <li><a href="/blog/2019/first-post.md">First Post</li></a>
  <li><a href="/blog/2019/second-post.md">Second Post</li></a>
</ul>
```

But what happens over time, when that list grows to 10, 50, 100+ posts?  Imagine maintaining that list each time, over and over again?  Or just remembering to update that list each time you publish a new post?  Not only that, but wouldn't it also be great to sort, search, filter, and organize those posts to make them easier for users to navigate and find?

So instead of a static list, you can do something like this!

```javascript
render() {
  return html`
    <ul>
      ${pages.map((page) => {
        return html`
          <li><a href="${page.path}">${page.title}</a></li>
        `;
      })}
    </ul>
  `;
}
```

To assist with this, Greenwood provides all your content as data, accessible from a single _graph.json_ file that you can simply [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) RESTfully or, if you install our [plugin for GraphQL](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql), you can use a GraphQL from your client side code instead! 💯


### Internal Sources
Greenwood (via [**plugin-graphql**](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql)) exposes an [Apollo](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) server locally when developing available at `localhost:4000` that can be used to get information about your local content like path, "slug", title and other useful information that will be dynamic to the content you create.  Programmatic access to this data can provide you the opportunity to share your content with your users in a way that supports sorting, filter, organizing, and more!

![graphql-playground](/assets/graphql-playground.png)

#### Schema
To kick things off, let's review what is available to you.  Currently, the main "API" is just a list of all pages in your _pages/_ directory, represented as a `Page` [type definition](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/basic-types/).   This is called Greenwood's `graph`.

This is what the schema looks like:
```javascript
graph {
  filename, // (string) base filename

  id, // (string) filename without the extension

  label, // (string) best guess pretty text / display based on filename

  outputPath, // (string) the relative path to write to when generating static HTML

  path, // (string) path to the file

  route,  // (string) A URL, typically derived from the filesystem path, e.g. /blog/2019/first-post/

  template, // (string) page template used for the page

  title,  // (string) Useful for a page's <title> tag or the title attribute for an <a> tag, inferred from the filesystem path, e.g. "First Post" or provided through front matter.
}
```

> All queries return subsets and / or derivatives of the `graph`.

#### Queries
To help facilitate development, Greenwood provides a couple queries out of the box that you can use to get access to the `graph` and start using it in your components, which we'll get to next.

Below are the queries available:

##### Graph
The Graph query returns an array of all pages.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  graph {
    filename,
    id,
    label,
    outputPath,
    path,
    route,
    template,
    title
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import GraphQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: GraphQuery
  });

  this.posts = response.data.graph;
}
```

###### Response
This will return the full `graph` of all pages as an array
```javascript
[
  {
    filename: "index.md",
    id: "index",
    label: "Index",
    outputPath: "index.html",
    path: "./index.md",
    route: "/",
    template: "page",
    title: "Home Page"
  }, {
    filename: "first-post.md",
    id: "first-post",
    label: "First Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/first-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/first-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/first-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My First Blog Poast"
  },
  {
    filename: "second-post.md",
    id: "second-post",
    label: "Second Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/second-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/second-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/second-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My Second Blog Poast"
  }
]
```

##### Menu Query

See [Menus](/docs/menu) for documentation on querying for custom menus.

##### Children
The Children query returns an array of all pages below a given top level route.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  children {
    id,
    filename,
    label,
    outputPath,
    path,
    route,
    template,
    title
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import ChildrenQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: ChildrenQuery,
    variables: {
      parent: 'blog'
    }
  });

  this.posts = response.data.children;
}
```

###### Response
This will return the full `graph` of all pages as an array that are under a given root, e.g. _/blog_.
```javascript
[
  {
    filename: "first-post.md",
    id: "first-post",
    label: "First Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/first-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/first-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/first-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My First Blog Poast"
  },
  {
    filename: "second-post.md",
    id: "second-post",
    label: "Second Post",
    outputPath: "/blog/2019/second-post/index.html",
    path: "./blog/2019/second-post.md",
    route: "/blog/2019/second-post",
    template: "blog",
    title: "My Second Blog Poast"
  }
]
```

##### Config
The Config query returns the configuration values from your _greenwood.config.js_.  Useful for populating tags like `<title>` and `<meta>`.

###### Definition
```javascript
query {
  config {
  	devServer {
      port
    },
    meta {
      name,
      rel,
      content,
      property,
      value,
      href
    },
    mode,
    optimization,
    title,
    workspace
  }
}
```

###### Usage
`import` the query in your component
```javascript
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import ConfigQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';
.
.
.

async connectedCallback() {
  super.connectedCallback();
  const response = await client.query({
    query: ConfigQuery
  });

  this.meta = response.data.config.meta;
}
```

###### Response
This will return an object of your _greenwood.config.js_ as an object.  Example:
```javascript
{
  devServer: {
    port: 1984
  },
  meta: [
    { name: 'twitter:site', content: '@PrjEvergreen' },
    { rel: 'icon', href: '/assets/favicon.ico' }
  ],
  title: 'My App',
  workspace: 'src' // equivalent to => fileURLToPath(new URL('./www', import.meta.url))
}
```

##### Custom
You can of course come up with your own as needed!  Greenwood provides the [`gql-tag`](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) module and will also resolve _.gql_ or _.graphql_ file extensions!

###### example:
```javascript
/* src/data/my-query.gql */
query {
  graph {
    /* whatever you are looking for */
  }
}
```

Or within your component
```javascript
import gql from 'graphql-tag';  // comes with Greenwood

const query = gql`
  {
    user(id: 5) {
      firstName
      lastName
    }
  }
`
```

Then you can use `import` anywhere in your components!

##### Complete Example
Now of course comes the fun part, actually seeing it all come together.  Here is an example from the Greenwood website's own [header component](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/blob/master/www/components/header/header.js).

```javascript
import { LitElement, html } from 'lit';
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import MenuQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

class HeaderComponent extends LitElement {

  static get properties() {
    return {
      navigation: {
        type: Array
      }
    };
  }

  constructor() {
    super();
    this.navigation = [];
  }

  async connectedCallback() {
    super.connectedCallback();

    const response = await client.query({
      query: MenuQuery,
      variables: {
        name: 'navigation'
      }
    });

    this.navigation = response.data.menu.children.map(item => item.item);
  }

  render() {
    const { navigation } = this;

    return html`
      <header class="header">

        <nav>
          <ul>
            ${navigation.map(({ item }) => {
              return html`
                <li><a href="${item.route}" title="Click to visit the ${item.label} page">${item.label}</a></li>
              `;
            })}
          </ul>
        </nav>

      </header>
    `;
  }
}

customElements.define('app-header', HeaderComponent);
```

> _For more information on using GraphQL with Greenwood, please see our [GraphQL plugin's README](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-graphql)._

### External Sources

Using our [Source plugin](/plugins/source/), just as you can get your content as data _out_ of Greenwood, so can you provide your own sources of data _to_ Greenwood.  This is great for pulling content from a headless CMS, database, or anything else you can imagine!

The supported [fields from Greenwood's schema](/docs/data/#internal-sources) are:
```javascript
graph {
  content, // REQUIRED (string of your content)
  id,
  label,
  route,  // REQUIRED and MUST end in a forward slash
  template,
  title,
  data
}
```
