www/pages/docs/index.md, before:

## Documentation
This is the documentation space for Greenwood that we hope will help you get the most out of using it.  If this is your first time with Greenwood, we recommend checking out our [Getting Started](/getting-started/) guide to get more familiar with setting up your first Greenwood project.


### Installation
Greenwood can be installed with any of the common package managers available today.

```render bash
# npm
$ npm install @greenwood/cli --save-dev

# yarn
$ yarn add @greeenwood/cli --dev
```

> You can install Greenwood globally as well, though we encourage local installation of Greenwood as documented above.

### CLI
With Greenwood installed, you can run its CLI to generate your site.  The commands available are:
- `develop`: Develop your project with a local development server.
- `build`: For generating a production ready static site.

As mentioned above, it is recommended to install Greenwood locally into your project. From there, you can define npm scripts in _package.json_:

```render json
"scripts": {
  "build": "greenwood build",
  "start": "greenwood develop"
},
```

Then you can run
- `npm run build` - build your project
- `npm start` - to fire up the local dev server

### Sections
- [Component Model](/docs/component-model/): Examples of using custom elements in Greenwood.
- [Configuration](/docs/configuration/): Available configuration options for the Greenwood CLI.
- [Front Matter](/docs/front-matter/): Page level configurations through page markdown.
- [Markdown](/docs/markdown/): Using markdown and related authoring capabilities supported by Greenwood.
- [Styles and Assets](/docs/css-and-images/): How to style and theme your project with CSS.
- [Templates](/docs/layouts/): Controlling the layout of your pages.
- [Tech Stack](/docs/tech-stack/): What's under the hood.

Commit message:

additional usage details and instructions

www/pages/docs/index.md, after:

## Documentation
This is the documentation space for Greenwood that we hope will help you get the most out of using it.  If this is your first time with Greenwood, we recommend checking out our [Getting Started](/getting-started/) guide to get more familiar with setting up your first Greenwood project.


### Installation
Greenwood can be installed with any of the common package managers available today.

```render bash
# npm
$ npm install @greenwood/cli --save-dev

# yarn
$ yarn add @greeenwood/cli --dev
```

You can also run Greenwood globally as well.  For global usage we recommend using `npx`
```render bash
npx @greenwood/cli build
```

### CLI
With Greenwood installed, you can run its CLI to generate your site.  The commands available are:
- `develop`: Develop your project with a local development server.
- `build`: For generating a production ready static site.

As mentioned above, it is recommended to install Greenwood locally into your project. From there, you can define npm scripts in _package.json_:

```render json
"scripts": {
  "build": "greenwood build",
  "start": "greenwood develop"
},
```

Then you can run:
- `npm run build` - generate a static build of your project for production
- `npm start` - starts a development server for local development

### Sections
- [Component Model](/docs/component-model/): Examples of using custom elements in Greenwood.
- [Configuration](/docs/configuration/): Available configuration options for the Greenwood CLI.
- [Front Matter](/docs/front-matter/): Page level configurations through page markdown.
- [Markdown](/docs/markdown/): Using markdown and related authoring capabilities supported by Greenwood.
- [Styles and Assets](/docs/css-and-images/): How to style and theme your project with CSS.
- [Templates](/docs/layouts/): Controlling the layout of your pages.
- [Tech Stack](/docs/tech-stack/): What's under the hood.
