www/pages/plugins/composite-plugins.md, before:

## Composite Plugins
Greenwood provides some custom "composite" plugins that are tasked with providing specific functionality to your project, built using the [available plugin types](/plugins/) already provided by Greenwood.  

The available plugins built and maintained by Greenwood team and contibutors have been provided in the table below, with links to their README with the appropriate installation and usage steps.

| Name  | Description  |
|---|---|
| [Google Analytics](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-google-analytics) | Easily add usage tracking to your site with Google Analytics. |
| [Polyfills](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-polyfills) | Although most modern browsers now support the APIs that make up Web Component, for older browsers use this plugin to Let Greenwood automatically take care of progressively loading polyfills for you. |

> See something missing?  Please review our [open issues](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues), we might be [working on it](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects)!  Or if not, please request it, we would be interested to learn how you need to use Greenwod and how the team can help!

Commit message:

task: refactor into single menu query, enable menu filtering with markdown declarations

www/pages/plugins/composite-plugins.md, after:

---
label: 'composite-plugins'
menu: side
title: 'Composite Plugins'
index: 1
---

## Composite Plugins
Greenwood provides some custom "composite" plugins that are tasked with providing specific functionality to your project, built using the [available plugin types](/plugins/) already provided by Greenwood.

The available plugins built and maintained by Greenwood team and contibutors have been provided in the table below, with links to their README with the appropriate installation and usage steps.

| Name  | Description  |
|---|---|
| [Google Analytics](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-google-analytics) | Easily add usage tracking to your site with Google Analytics. |
| [Polyfills](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-polyfills) | Although most modern browsers now support the APIs that make up Web Component, for older browsers use this plugin to Let Greenwood automatically take care of progressively loading polyfills for you. |

> See something missing?  Please review our [open issues](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues), we might be [working on it](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects)!  Or if not, please request it, we would be interested to learn how you need to use Greenwod and how the team can help!
