www/pages/plugins/custom-plugins.md, before:

---
label: 'custom-plugins'
menu: side
title: 'Custom Plugins'
index: 1
---

## Custom Plugins
Greenwood provides some custom plugins that can be used to enhance your project's default functionalty, using the [available plugin types](/plugins/) provided by Greenwood.

The available plugins built and maintained by Greenwood team and contibutors have been provided in the table below, with links to their README with the appropriate installation and usage steps.

| Name  | Description  |
|---|---|
| [Babel](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-babel) | Allows usage of [**Babel**](https://babeljs.io/) plugins, presets, and configuration in your project. |
| [Google Analytics](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-google-analytics) | Easily add usage tracking to your site with Google Analytics. |
| [Import CommonJs](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-import-commonjs) | Enables usage of `import` syntax for loading CommonJS modules from _node_modules_. |
| [Import CSS](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-import-css) | Enables usage of `import` syntax for loading CSS files. |
| [Polyfills](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-polyfills) | Although most modern browsers now support the APIs that make up Web Component, for older browsers use this plugin to Let Greenwood automatically take care of progressively loading polyfills for you. |
| [PostCSS](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-postcss) | Allows usage of [**PostCSS**](https://postcss.org/) plugins and configuration in your project. |

> See something missing?  Please review our [open issues](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues), we might be [working on it](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects)!  Or if not, please request it, we would be interested to learn how you need to use Greenwod and how the team can help!

Commit message:

Enhancement/issue 516 import json (#615)
* wip

* wip and working around 204 no content

* additional sample

* restore to master

* move demo code

* update spec

* specs passing and dependencies and docs updated

* remove demo code

* clarify usage

* clarify usage

* fix test case to adhere to spec

www/pages/plugins/custom-plugins.md, after:

---
label: 'custom-plugins'
menu: side
title: 'Custom Plugins'
index: 1
---

## Custom Plugins
Greenwood provides some custom plugins that can be used to enhance your project's default functionalty, using the [available plugin types](/plugins/) provided by Greenwood.

The available plugins built and maintained by Greenwood team and contibutors have been provided in the table below, with links to their README with the appropriate installation and usage steps.

| Name  | Description  |
|---|---|
| [Babel](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-babel) | Allows usage of [**Babel**](https://babeljs.io/) plugins, presets, and configuration in your project. |
| [Google Analytics](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-google-analytics) | Easily add usage tracking to your site with Google Analytics. |
| [Import CommonJs](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-import-commonjs) | Enables usage of `import` syntax for loading CommonJS modules from _node_modules_. |
| [Import CSS](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-import-css) | Enables usage of `import` syntax for loading CSS files. |
| [Import JSON](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-import-json) | Enables usage of `import` syntax for loading JSON files. |
| [Polyfills](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-polyfills) | Although most modern browsers now support the APIs that make up Web Component, for older browsers use this plugin to Let Greenwood automatically take care of progressively loading polyfills for you. |
| [PostCSS](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-postcss) | Allows usage of [**PostCSS**](https://postcss.org/) plugins and configuration in your project. |

> See something missing?  Please review our [open issues](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues), we might be [working on it](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/projects)!  Or if not, please request it, we would be interested to learn how you need to use Greenwod and how the team can help!
