packages/plugin-graphql/README.md, before:

# @greenwood/plugin-graphql

## Overview
A plugin for Greenwood to support using [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) to query your content graph.  It runs [**apollo-server**](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) on the backend and provides an [**@apollo/client** like](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/core/ApolloClient/#ApolloClient.readQuery) interface for the frontend.

> This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.

_examples:_
```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-graphql --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-graphql --dev
```

## Usage
Add this plugin to your _greenwood.config.js_ and spread the `export`.

```javascript
import { greenwoodPluginGraphQL } from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql';

export default {
  ...

  plugins: [
    ...greenwoodPluginGraphQL() // notice the spread ... !
  ]
}
```

## Example
This will then allow you to use GraphQL to query your content.

```js
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import MenuQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    super();

    this.root = this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
  }

  connectedCallback() {
    const response = await client.query({
      query: MenuQuery,
      variables: {
        name: 'navigation',
        order: 'index_asc'
      }
    });

    this.navigation = response.data.menu.children.map(item => item.item);
    this.root.innerHTML = this.getTemplate(navigation);
  }

  getTemplate(navigation) {
    const navigationList = navigation.map((menuItem) => {
      return `
        <li>
          <a href="${menuItem.route}" title="Click to visit the ${menuItem.label} page">${menuItem.label}</a>
        </li>
      `;
    }).join();

    return `
      <header>
        <nav>
          <ul>
            ${navigationList}
          </ul>
        </nav>
      <header>
    `;
  }
}
```

> _For more general purpose information on integrating GraphQL with Greenwood, [please review our docs](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/docs/data)._

## Custom Schemas

This plugin also supports you providing your own custom schemas in your project so you can make GraphQL pull in whatever data or content you need!

Just create a _data/schema_ directory and then Greenwood will look for any files inside it that you can use to export typeDefs and resolvers.  Each schema file must specifically export a `customTypeDefs` and `customResolvers`.

### Example

For example, you could create a "gallery" schema that could be used to group and organize photos for your frontend using variable.
```js
import gql from 'graphql-tag';

const getGallery = async (root, query) => {
  if (query.name === 'logos') {
    // you could of course use fs here and look up files on the filesystem, or remotely!
    return [{
      name: 'logos',
      title: 'Home Page Logos',
      images: [{
        path: '/assets/logo1.png'
      }, {
        path: '/assets/logo2.png'
      }, {
        path: '/assets/logo3.png'
      }]
    }];
  }
};

const galleryTypeDefs = gql`
  type Image {
    path: String
  }

  type Gallery {
    name: String,
    title: String,
    images: [Image]
  }

  extend type Query {
    gallery(name: String!): [Gallery]
  }
`;

const galleryResolvers = {
  Query: {
    gallery: getGallery
  }
};

// naming is up to you as long as the final export is correct
export {
  galleryTypeDefs as customTypeDefs,
  galleryResolvers as customResolvers
};
```

```js
// gallery.gql
query($name: String!) {
  gallery(name: $name)  {
    name,
    title,
    images {
      path
    }
  }
}
```

And then you can use it in your code as such:
```js
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import GalleryQuery from '/data/queries/gallery.gql';

client.query({
  query: GalleryQuery,
  variables: {
    name: 'logos'
  }
}).then((response) => {
  const logos = response.data.gallery[0].images[i];

  logos.forEach((logo) => {
    console.log(logo.path); // /assets/logo1.png, /assets/logo2.png, /assets/logo3.png
  })
});
```

Commit message:

update docs to reflect prerendering with WCC and cross dependencies with Puppeteer

packages/plugin-graphql/README.md, after:

# @greenwood/plugin-graphql

## Overview
A plugin for Greenwood to support using [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) to query Greenwood's content graph.  It runs [**apollo-server**](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) on the backend and provides an [**@apollo/client** _"like"_](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/core/ApolloClient/#ApolloClient.readQuery) interface for the frontend that you can use.

> This package assumes you already have `@greenwood/cli` installed.

## Caveats

As of now, this plugin can only be used in conjunction with our [Puppeteer rendering plugin](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/tree/master/packages/plugin-renderer-puppeteer).  Please make sure you have it installed first to get the benefits of this plugin.

```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-renderer-puppeteer --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add  @greenwood/plugin-renderer-puppeteer --dev
```

> _We are working on re-evaluating and improving our [data loading](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/952) and [rendering strategies](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/issues/951) as part of our [1.0 release](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/milestone/3)._


## Installation
You can use your favorite JavaScript package manager to install this package.

```bash
# npm
npm install @greenwood/plugin-graphql --save-dev

# yarn
yarn add @greenwood/plugin-graphql --dev
```

## Usage
Add this plugin and the Puppeteer plugins to your _greenwood.config.js_.

```javascript
import { greenwoodPluginGraphQL } from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql';
import { greenwoodPluginRendererPuppeteer } from '@greenwood/plugin-renderer-puppeteer';

export default {
  ...

  plugins: [
    ...greenwoodPluginGraphQL(), // notice the spread ... !
    ...greenwoodPluginRendererPuppeteer() // notice the spread ... !
  ]
}
```

## Example
This will then allow you to use GraphQL to query your content from your client side.  At build time, it will generate JSON files so that the data is still accessible statically.

```js
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import MenuQuery from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/queries/menu';

class HeaderComponent extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    super();

    this.root = this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' });
  }

  connectedCallback() {
    const response = await client.query({
      query: MenuQuery,
      variables: {
        name: 'navigation',
        order: 'index_asc'
      }
    });

    this.navigation = response.data.menu.children.map(item => item.item);
    this.root.innerHTML = this.getTemplate(navigation);
  }

  getTemplate(navigation) {
    const navigationList = navigation.map((menuItem) => {
      return `
        <li>
          <a href="${menuItem.route}" title="Click to visit the ${menuItem.label} page">${menuItem.label}</a>
        </li>
      `;
    }).join();

    return `
      <header>
        <nav>
          <ul>
            ${navigationList}
          </ul>
        </nav>
      <header>
    `;
  }
}
```

> _For more general purpose information on integrating GraphQL with Greenwood, [please review our docs](https://www.greenwoodjs.io/docs/data)._

## Custom Schemas

This plugin also supports you providing your own custom schemas in your project so you can make GraphQL pull in whatever data or content you need!

Just create a _data/schema_ directory and then Greenwood will look for any files inside it that you can use to export typeDefs and resolvers.  Each schema file must specifically export a `customTypeDefs` and `customResolvers`.

### Example

For example, you could create a "gallery" schema that could be used to group and organize photos for your frontend using variable.
```js
import gql from 'graphql-tag';

const getGallery = async (root, query) => {
  if (query.name === 'logos') {
    // you could of course use fs here and look up files on the filesystem, or remotely!
    return [{
      name: 'logos',
      title: 'Home Page Logos',
      images: [{
        path: '/assets/logo1.png'
      }, {
        path: '/assets/logo2.png'
      }, {
        path: '/assets/logo3.png'
      }]
    }];
  }
};

const galleryTypeDefs = gql`
  type Image {
    path: String
  }

  type Gallery {
    name: String,
    title: String,
    images: [Image]
  }

  extend type Query {
    gallery(name: String!): [Gallery]
  }
`;

const galleryResolvers = {
  Query: {
    gallery: getGallery
  }
};

// naming is up to you as long as the final export is correct
export {
  galleryTypeDefs as customTypeDefs,
  galleryResolvers as customResolvers
};
```

```js
// gallery.gql
query($name: String!) {
  gallery(name: $name)  {
    name,
    title,
    images {
      path
    }
  }
}
```

And then you can use it in your code as such:
```js
import client from '@greenwood/plugin-graphql/core/client';
import GalleryQuery from '/data/queries/gallery.gql';

client.query({
  query: GalleryQuery,
  variables: {
    name: 'logos'
  }
}).then((response) => {
  const logos = response.data.gallery[0].images[i];

  logos.forEach((logo) => {
    console.log(logo.path); // /assets/logo1.png, /assets/logo2.png, /assets/logo3.png
  })
});
```
