www/pages/about/community.md, before:

---
label: 'community'
menu: side
title: 'Community'
index: 3
---

## Community

Greenwood understands the role of community in open source, technology, and learning and we want to embrace that in this project as well.  There are many great tools and projects available in the web ecosystem and we want to highlight those projects here, that have been important in the development of Greenwood (in no particular order).

- [**webpack**](https://webpack.js.org/) (and friends) - Module bundler and powers the local development environment for Greenwood.
- [**puppeteer**](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/puppeteer) - Headless Chrome browser used for serializtion.
- [**WC Markdown Loader**](https://github.com/hutchgrant/wc-markdown-loader/) - A webpack plugin that transforms a markdown file into a Web Component! 🤯
- [**LitReduxRouter**](https://github.com/fernandopasik/lit-redux-router) - Declarative client side routing library.
- [**LitApollo**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@apollo-elements/lit-apollo) - Base component class for connecting to Greenwood's build time GraphQL server.

And of course we can't forget our [Contributors](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/graphs/contributors)!

So please come join our community and help us grow and advance the web together!  We can't wait to see what you come up with.  💡

Commit message:

updated about page sections per refactor and new vision

www/pages/about/community.md, after:

---
label: 'community'
menu: side
title: 'Community'
index: 3
---

## Community

Greenwood understands the role of community in open source, technology, and learning and we want to embrace that in this project as well.  There are many great tools and projects available in the web ecosystem that we want to highlight here for their importance and influence towards the development of Greenwood (in no particular order).

- [**MDN**](https://developer.mozilla.org/) - Mozilla Developer Network, the one reference documentation site to rule them all.
- [**Rollup**](https://rollupjs.org/) - For helping push the bundler worls forward towards ESM
- [**Snowpack**](https://www.snowpack.dev/) - Evangalizing and advocacy for ESM has really helped push the industry forward in such a short amount of time
- [**OpenWC**](https://open-wc.org/) - Taking web developers from zero to hero with Web Components.
- [**Rome**](https://rome.tools/) - As about as non meta-framework as they come.  No doubt the spirit of this project is contagious.
- [**Parcel**](https://parceljs.org/) - HTML as the entry point.  Huh, wish we had thought of that.
- [**Gatsby**](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) - Gatsby was at the forefront of the recent JAMStack wave of tools and certainly set the pace for tools to come.


And of course we can't forget our [Contributors](https://github.com/ProjectEvergreen/greenwood/graphs/contributors)!

So please come join our community and help us grow and advance the web together!  We can't wait to see what you come up with! 💡
